README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <p align="center">Docusaurus</p>
  <a href="https://docusaurus.io"><img src="https://docusaurus.io/img/slash-introducing.svg" alt="Docusaurus"></a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#backers" alt="sponsors on Open Collective"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/backers/badge.svg" /></a>
  <a href="#sponsors" alt="Sponsors on Open Collective"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsors/badge.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/docusaurus"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/docusaurus.svg?style=flat" alt="npm version"></a>
  <a href="https://circleci.com/gh/facebook/docusaurus"><img src="https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/facebook/docusaurus.svg" alt="CircleCI status"></a>
<a href="CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-requests"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" alt="PRs Welcome"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/docusaurus"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289da.svg" alt="Chat"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/prettier/prettier"><img alt="code style: prettier" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/facebook/jest"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/tested_with-jest-99424f.svg" alt="Tested with Jest"></a>
  <a href="https://app.netlify.com/sites/docusaurus-preview/deploys"><img src="https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/57ebb454-c937-4c1d-a228-d9dccb494f49/deploy-status" alt="Netlify Status"></a>
</p>

## Introduction

Docusaurus is a project for easily building, deploying, and maintaining open source project websites.

- **Simple to Start** Docusaurus is built to be easy to [get up and running](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/installation/) in as little time possible. We've built Docusaurus to handle the website build process so you can focus on your project.
- **Localizable** Docusaurus ships with [localization support](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/translation/) via CrowdIn. Empower and grow your international community by translating your documentation.
- **Customizable** While Docusaurus ships with the key pages and sections you need to get started, including a home page, a docs section, a [blog](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/adding-blog/), and additional support pages, it is also [customizable](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/custom-pages/) as well to ensure you have a site that is [uniquely yours](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/api-pages/).

## Installation

Docusaurus is available as the [`docusaurus` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/docusaurus) on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com).

We have also released the [`docusaurus-init` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/docusaurus-init) to make [getting started](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/installation/) with Docusaurus even easier.

## Contributing

We've released Docusaurus because it helps us better scale and supports the many OSS projects at Facebook. We hope that other organizations can benefit from the project. We are thankful for any contributions from the community.

### [Code of Conduct](https://code.fb.com/codeofconduct)

Facebook has adopted a Code of Conduct that we expect project participants to adhere to. Please read [the full text](https://code.fb.com/codeofconduct) so that you can understand what actions will and will not be tolerated.

### Contributing Guide

Read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our development process, how to propose bugfixes and improvements, and how to build and test your changes to Docusaurus.

### Beginner Friendly Bugs

To help you get your feet wet and get you familiar with our contribution process, we have a list of [beginner friendly bugs](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/labels/good%20first%20issue) that contain bugs which are fairly easy to fix. This is a great place to get started.

## Contact

We have a few channels for contact:

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/docusaurus) with two text channels:
  - `#docusaurus-users` for those using Docusaurus.
  - `#docusaurus-dev` for those wanting to contribute to the Docusaurus core.
- [@docusaurus](https://twitter.com/docusaurus) on Twitter
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues)

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [[Contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)]. <a href="https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

## Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a> <a href="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>

## License

Docusaurus is [MIT licensed](./LICENSE).

The Docusaurus documentation (e.g., `.md` files in the `/docs` folder) is [Creative Commons licensed](./LICENSE-docs).

Commit message:

Initial commit to replace easy, easily, simple, just, of course

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <p align="center">Docusaurus</p>
  <a href="https://docusaurus.io"><img src="https://docusaurus.io/img/slash-introducing.svg" alt="Docusaurus"></a>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#backers" alt="sponsors on Open Collective"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/backers/badge.svg" /></a>
  <a href="#sponsors" alt="Sponsors on Open Collective"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsors/badge.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/docusaurus"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/docusaurus.svg?style=flat" alt="npm version"></a>
  <a href="https://circleci.com/gh/facebook/docusaurus"><img src="https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/facebook/docusaurus.svg" alt="CircleCI status"></a>
<a href="CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-requests"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" alt="PRs Welcome"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/docusaurus"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-7289da.svg" alt="Chat"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/prettier/prettier"><img alt="code style: prettier" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/facebook/jest"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/tested_with-jest-99424f.svg" alt="Tested with Jest"></a>
  <a href="https://app.netlify.com/sites/docusaurus-preview/deploys"><img src="https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/57ebb454-c937-4c1d-a228-d9dccb494f49/deploy-status" alt="Netlify Status"></a>
</p>

## Introduction

Docusaurus is a project for easily building, deploying, and maintaining open source project websites.

- **Simple to Start** Docusaurus is built to be easy to [get up and running](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/installation/) in as little time possible. We've built Docusaurus to handle the website build process so you can focus on your project.
- **Localizable** Docusaurus ships with [localization support](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/translation/) via CrowdIn. Empower and grow your international community by translating your documentation.
- **Customizable** While Docusaurus ships with the key pages and sections you need to get started, including a home page, a docs section, a [blog](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/adding-blog/), and additional support pages, it is also [customizable](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/custom-pages/) as well to ensure you have a site that is [uniquely yours](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/api-pages/).

## Installation

Docusaurus is available as the [`docusaurus` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/docusaurus) on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com).

We have also released the [`docusaurus-init` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/docusaurus-init) to make [getting started](https://docusaurus.io/docs/en/installation/) with Docusaurus even easier.

## Contributing

We've released Docusaurus because it helps us better scale and supports the many OSS projects at Facebook. We hope that other organizations can benefit from the project. We are thankful for any contributions from the community.

### [Code of Conduct](https://code.fb.com/codeofconduct)

Facebook has adopted a Code of Conduct that we expect project participants to adhere to. Please read [the full text](https://code.fb.com/codeofconduct) so that you can understand what actions will and will not be tolerated.

### Contributing Guide

Read our [contributing guide](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our development process, how to propose bugfixes and improvements, and how to build and test your changes to Docusaurus.

### Beginner Friendly Bugs

To help you get your feet wet and get you familiar with our contribution process, we have a list of [beginner friendly bugs](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/labels/good%20first%20issue) that  might contain smaller issues to tackle first. This is a great place to get started.

## Contact

We have a few channels for contact:

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/docusaurus) with two text channels:
  - `#docusaurus-users` for those using Docusaurus.
  - `#docusaurus-dev` for those wanting to contribute to the Docusaurus core.
- [@docusaurus](https://twitter.com/docusaurus) on Twitter
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues)

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [[Contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)]. <a href="https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

## Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a> <a href="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/Docusaurus/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>

## License

Docusaurus is [MIT licensed](./LICENSE).

The Docusaurus documentation (e.g., `.md` files in the `/docs` folder) is [Creative Commons licensed](./LICENSE-docs).
