website-1.x/versioned_docs/version-1.12.0/getting-started-publishing.md, before:

---
id: version-1.12.0-publishing
title: Publishing your site
original_id: publishing
---

You should now have a [site up and running locally](getting-started-site-creation.md). Once you have [customized](api-site-config.md) it to your liking, it's time to publish it. Docusaurus generates a static HTML website that is ready to be served by your favorite web server or online hosting solution.

## Building Static HTML Pages

To create a static build of your website, run the following script from the `website` directory:

```bash
yarn run build # or `npm run build`
```

This will generate a `build` directory inside the `website` directory containing the `.html` files from all of your docs and other pages included in `pages`.

## Hosting Static HTML Pages

At this point, you can grab all of the files inside the `website/build` directory and copy them over to your favorite web server's `html` directory.

> For example, both Apache and Nginx serve content from `/var/www/html` by default. That said, choosing a web server or provider is outside the scope of Docusaurus.

> When serving the site from your own web server, ensure the web server is serving the asset files with the proper HTTP headers. CSS files should be served with the `content-type` header of `text/css`. In the case of Nginx, this would mean setting `include /etc/nginx/mime.types;` in your `nginx.conf` file. See [this issue](https://github.com/facebook/Docusaurus/issues/602) for more info.

### Hosting on a Service:

* [GitHub Pages](#using-github-pages)
* [Netlify](#hosting-on-netlify)
* [Render](#hosting-on-render)

### Using GitHub Pages

Docusaurus was designed to work really well with one of the most popular hosting solutions for open source projects: [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).

#### Deploying to GitHub Pages

1. Docusaurus supports deploying as [project pages or user/organization pages](https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages), your code repository does not even need to be public.

> Even if your repository is private, anything published to a `gh-pages` branch will be [public](https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages/).

__Note:__ When you deploy as user/organization page, the publish script will deploy these sites to the root of the __`master`__ branch of the _username_.github.io repo. In this case, note that you will want to have the Docusaurus infra, your docs, etc. either in __another branch of the _username_.github.io repo__ (e.g., maybe call it `source`), or in another, separate repo (e.g. in the same as the documented source code).

2. You will need to modify the file `website/siteConfig.js` and add the required parameters.

| Name               | Description                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `organizationName` | The GitHub user or organization that owns the repository. If you are the owner, then it is your GitHub username. In the case of Docusaurus, that would be the "_facebook_" GitHub organization.                                                   |
| `projectName`      | The name of the GitHub repository for your project. For example, the source code for Docusaurus is hosted at https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus, so our project name in this case would be "docusaurus". |
| `url`              | Your website's URL. For projects hosted on GitHub pages, this will be "https://_username_.github.io" |
| `baseUrl`          | Base URL for your project. For projects hosted on GitHub pages, it follows the format "/_projectName_/". For https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus, `baseUrl` is `/docusaurus/`. |


```js
const siteConfig = {
  ...
  url: 'https://__userName__.github.io', // Your website URL
  baseUrl: '/testProject/',
  projectName: 'testProject',
  organizationName: 'userName'
  ...
}
```

In case you want to deploy as a user or organization site, specify the project name as `<username>.github.io` or `<orgname>.github.io`. E.g. If your GitHub username is "user42" then _user42.github.io_, or in the case of an organization name of "org123", it will be _org123.github.io_.

__Note:__ Not setting the `url` and `baseUrl` of your project might result in incorrect file paths generated which can cause broken links to assets paths like stylesheets and images.

> While we recommend setting the `projectName` and `organizationName` in `siteConfig.js`, you can also use environment variables `ORGANIZATION_NAME` and `PROJECT_NAME`.

3. Now you have to specify the git user as an environment variable, and run the script [`publish-gh-pages`](./api-commands.md#docusaurus-publish)

| Name       | Description                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `GIT_USER` | The username for a GitHub account that has commit access to this repo. For your own repositories, this will usually be your own GitHub username. The specified `GIT_USER` must have push access to the repository specified in the combination of `organizationName` and `projectName`. |

To run the script directly from the command-line, you can use the following, filling in the parameter values as appropriate.

```bash
GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> \
  CURRENT_BRANCH=master \
  USE_SSH=true \
  yarn run publish-gh-pages # or `npm run publish-gh-pages`
```

There are also two optional parameters that are set as environment variables:

| Name             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `USE_SSH`        | If this is set to `true`, then SSH is used instead of HTTPS for the connection to the GitHub repo. HTTPS is the default if this variable is not set.                                                                                                              |
| `CURRENT_BRANCH` | The branch that contains the latest docs changes that will be deployed. Usually, the branch will be `master`, but it could be any branch (default or otherwise) except for `gh-pages`. If nothing is set for this variable, then the current branch will be used. |

If you run into issues related to SSH keys, visit [GitHub's authentication documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/).

You should now be able to load your website by visiting its GitHub Pages URL, which could be something along the lines of https://_username_.github.io/_projectName_, or a custom domain if you have set that up. For example, Docusaurus' own GitHub Pages URL is https://facebook.github.io/Docusaurus because it is served from the `gh-pages` branch of the https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus GitHub repository. However, it can also be accessed via https://docusaurus.io/, via a generated `CNAME` file which can be configured via the `cname` [siteConfig option](api-site-config.md#cname-string).

We highly encourage reading through the [GitHub Pages documentation](https://pages.github.com) to learn more about how this hosting solution works.

You can run the command above any time you update the docs and wish to deploy the changes to your site. Running the script manually may be fine for sites where the documentation rarely changes and it is not too much of an inconvenience to remember to manually deploy changes.

However, you can automate the publishing process with continuous integration (CI).

## Automating Deployments Using Continuous Integration

Continuous integration (CI) services are typically used to perform routine tasks whenever new commits are checked in to source control. These tasks can be any combination of running unit tests and integration tests, automating builds, publishing packages to NPM, and yes, deploying changes to your website. All you need to do to automate deployment of your website is to invoke the `publish-gh-pages` script whenever your docs get updated. In the following section, we'll be covering how to do just that using [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/), a popular continuous integration service provider.

### Using CircleCI 2.0

If you haven't done so already, you can [setup CircleCI](https://circleci.com/signup/) for your open source project. Afterwards, in order to enable automatic deployment of your site and documentation via CircleCI, just configure Circle to run the `publish-gh-pages` script as part of the deployment step. You can follow the steps below to get that setup.

1.  Ensure the GitHub account that will be set as the `GIT_USER` has `write` access to the repository that contains the documentation, by checking `Settings | Collaborators & teams` in the repository.
1.  Log into GitHub as the `GIT_USER`.
1.  Go to https://github.com/settings/tokens for the `GIT_USER` and generate a new [personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/), granting it full control of private repositories through the `repository` access scope. Store this token in a safe place, making sure to not share it with anyone. This token can be used to authenticate GitHub actions on your behalf in place of your GitHub password.
1.  Open your CircleCI dashboard, and navigate to the Settings page for your repository, then select "Environment variables". The URL looks like https://circleci.com/gh/ORG/REPO/edit#env-vars, where "ORG/REPO" should be replaced with your own GitHub organization/repository.
1.  Create a new environment variable named `GITHUB_TOKEN`, using your newly generated access token as the value.
1.  Create a `.circleci` directory and create a `config.yml` under that directory.
1.  Copy the text below into `.circleci/config.yml`.

```yaml
# If you only want circle to run on direct commits to master, you can uncomment this out
# and uncomment the filters: *filter-only-master down below too
#
# aliases:
#  - &filter-only-master
#    branches:
#      only:
#        - master

version: 2
jobs:
  deploy-website:
    docker:
      # specify the version you desire here
      - image: circleci/node:8.11.1

    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Deploying to GitHub Pages
          command: |
            git config --global user.email "<GITHUB_USERNAME>@users.noreply.github.com"
            git config --global user.name "<YOUR_NAME>"
            echo "machine github.com login <GITHUB_USERNAME> password $GITHUB_TOKEN" > ~/.netrc
            cd website && yarn install && GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> yarn run publish-gh-pages

workflows:
  version: 2
  build_and_deploy:
    jobs:
      - deploy-website:
#         filters: *filter-only-master
```

Make sure to replace all `<....>` in the `command:` sequence with appropriate values. For `<GIT_USER>`, it should be a GitHub account that has access to push documentation to your GitHub repository. Many times `<GIT_USER>` and `<GITHUB_USERNAME>` will be the same.

**DO NOT** place the actual value of `$GITHUB_TOKEN` in `circle.yml`. We already configured that as an environment variable back in Step 5.

> If you want to use SSH for your GitHub repository connection, you can set `USE_SSH=true`. So the above command would look something like: `cd website && npm install && GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> USE_SSH=true npm run publish-gh-pages`.

> Unlike when you run the `publish-gh-pages` script manually when the script runs within the Circle environment, the value of `CURRENT_BRANCH` is already defined as an [environment variable within CircleCI](https://circleci.com/docs/1.0/environment-variables/) and will be picked up by the script automatically.

Now, whenever a new commit lands in `master`, CircleCI will run your suite of tests and, if everything passes, your website will be deployed via the `publish-gh-pages` script.

> If you would rather use a deploy key instead of a personal access token, you can by starting with the CircleCI [instructions](https://circleci.com/docs/1.0/adding-read-write-deployment-key/) for adding a read/write deploy key.

### Tips & Tricks

When initially deploying to a `gh-pages` branch using CircleCI, you may notice that some jobs triggered by commits to the `gh-pages` branch fail to run successfully due to a lack of tests (This can also result in chat/slack build failure notifications).

You can work around this easily by:
- Setting the environment variable `CUSTOM_COMMIT_MESSAGE` flag to the `publish-gh-pages` command with the contents of `[skip ci]`.
e.g.
```bash
CUSTOM_COMMIT_MESSAGE="[skip ci]" \
  yarn run publish-gh-pages # or `npm run publish-gh-pages`
```

- Alternatively, you can work around this by creating a basic CircleCI config with the following contents:
```yaml
# CircleCI 2.0 Config File
# This config file will prevent tests from being run on the gh-pages branch.
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    machine: true
    branches:
      ignore: gh-pages
    steps:
      - run: echo "Skipping tests on gh-pages branch"
```

Save this file as `config.yml` and place it in a `.circleci` directory inside your `website/static` directory.

### Using Travis CI

1.  Go to https://github.com/settings/tokens and generate a new [personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)
1.  Using your GitHub account, [add the Travis CI app](https://github.com/marketplace/travis-ci) to the repository you want to activate.
1.  Open your Travis CI dashboard. The URL looks like https://travis-ci.com/USERNAME/REPO, and navigate to the `More options` > `Setting` > `Environment Variables` section of your repository.
1.  Create a new environment variable named `GH_TOKEN` with your newly generated token as its value, then `GH_EMAIL` (your email address) and `GH_NAME` (your GitHub username).
1.  Create a `.travis.yml` on the root of your repository with below text.

```yaml
# .travis.yml
language: node_js
node_js:
  - '8'
branches:
  only:
    - master
cache:
  yarn: true
script:
  - git config --global user.name "${GH_NAME}"
  - git config --global user.email "${GH_EMAIL}"
  - echo "machine github.com login ${GH_NAME} password ${GH_TOKEN}" > ~/.netrc
  - cd website && yarn install && GIT_USER="${GH_NAME}" yarn run publish-gh-pages
```

Now, whenever a new commit lands in `master`, Travis CI will run your suite of tests and, if everything passes, your website will be deployed via the `publish-gh-pages` script.

### Hosting on Netlify

Steps to configure your Docusaurus-powered site on Netlify.

1.  Select **New site from Git**
1.  Connect to your preferred Git provider.
1.  Select the branch to deploy. Default is `master`
1.  Configure your build steps:

    * For your build command enter: `cd website; npm install; npm run build;`
    * For publish directory: `website/build/<projectName>` (use the `projectName` from your `siteConfig`)

1.  Click **Deploy site**

You can also configure Netlify to rebuild on every commit to your repository, or only `master` branch commits.

### Hosting on Render

Render offers free [static site](https://render.com/docs/static-sites) hosting with fully managed SSL, custom domains, a global CDN and continuous auto deploys from your Git repo. Deploy your app in just a few minutes by following these steps.

1. Create a new **Web Service** on Render, and give Render's GitHub app permission to access your Docusaurus repo.

2. Select the branch to deploy. The default is `master`.

2. Enter the following values during creation.

    |  Field  |  Value |
    | ------- | ----- |
    | **Environment** | `Static Site` |
    | **Build Command** | `cd website; yarn install; yarn build` |
    | **Publish Directory** | `website/build/<projectName>` |

    `projectName` is the value you defined in your `siteConfig.js`.

    ```javascript{7}
    const siteConfig = {
      // ...
      projectName: 'your-project-name',
      // ...
    ```

That's it! Your app will be live on your Render URL as soon as the build finishes.

### Publishing to GitHub Enterprise

GitHub enterprise installations should work in the same manner as github.com; you only need to identify the organization's GitHub Enterprise host.

| Name          | Description                                    |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `GITHUB_HOST` | The hostname for the GitHub enterprise server. |

Alter your `siteConfig.js` to add a property `'githubHost'` which represents the GitHub Enterprise hostname. Alternatively, set an environment variable `GITHUB_HOST` when executing the publish command.

Commit message:

docs: suggest ZEIT Now for quick deployment (#1690)
* Suggest ZEIT Now for quick deployment

* Simpler heading

* Added 1.10.x

* Added 1.12.0

* Adedd 1.9.x

website-1.x/versioned_docs/version-1.12.0/getting-started-publishing.md, after:

---
id: version-1.12.0-publishing
title: Publishing your site
original_id: publishing
---

You should now have a [site up and running locally](getting-started-site-creation.md). Once you have [customized](api-site-config.md) it to your liking, it's time to publish it. Docusaurus generates a static HTML website that is ready to be served by your favorite web server or online hosting solution.

## Building Static HTML Pages

To create a static build of your website, run the following script from the `website` directory:

```bash
yarn run build # or `npm run build`
```

This will generate a `build` directory inside the `website` directory containing the `.html` files from all of your docs and other pages included in `pages`.

## Hosting Static HTML Pages

At this point, you can grab all of the files inside the `website/build` directory and copy them over to your favorite web server's `html` directory.

> For example, both Apache and Nginx serve content from `/var/www/html` by default. That said, choosing a web server or provider is outside the scope of Docusaurus.

> When serving the site from your own web server, ensure the web server is serving the asset files with the proper HTTP headers. CSS files should be served with the `content-type` header of `text/css`. In the case of Nginx, this would mean setting `include /etc/nginx/mime.types;` in your `nginx.conf` file. See [this issue](https://github.com/facebook/Docusaurus/issues/602) for more info.

### Hosting on a Service:

* [ZEIT Now](#using-zeit-now)
* [GitHub Pages](#using-github-pages)
* [Netlify](#hosting-on-netlify)
* [Render](#hosting-on-render)

## Using ZEIT Now

Deploying your Docusaurus project to [ZEIT Now](https://zeit.co/now) will provide you with [various benefits](https://zeit.co/now) in the areas of performance and ease of use.

Most importantly, however, deploying a Docusaurus project only takes a couple seconds:

1. First, install their [command-line interface](https://zeit.co/download):

```bash
npm i -g now
```

2. Run a single command inside the directory if your project:

```bash
now
```

**That's all.** Your docs will automatically be deployed.

### Using GitHub Pages

Docusaurus was designed to work really well with one of the most popular hosting solutions for open source projects: [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).

#### Deploying to GitHub Pages

1. Docusaurus supports deploying as [project pages or user/organization pages](https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages), your code repository does not even need to be public.

> Even if your repository is private, anything published to a `gh-pages` branch will be [public](https://help.github.com/articles/user-organization-and-project-pages/).

__Note:__ When you deploy as user/organization page, the publish script will deploy these sites to the root of the __`master`__ branch of the _username_.github.io repo. In this case, note that you will want to have the Docusaurus infra, your docs, etc. either in __another branch of the _username_.github.io repo__ (e.g., maybe call it `source`), or in another, separate repo (e.g. in the same as the documented source code).

2. You will need to modify the file `website/siteConfig.js` and add the required parameters.

| Name               | Description                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `organizationName` | The GitHub user or organization that owns the repository. If you are the owner, then it is your GitHub username. In the case of Docusaurus, that would be the "_facebook_" GitHub organization.                                                   |
| `projectName`      | The name of the GitHub repository for your project. For example, the source code for Docusaurus is hosted at https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus, so our project name in this case would be "docusaurus". |
| `url`              | Your website's URL. For projects hosted on GitHub pages, this will be "https://_username_.github.io" |
| `baseUrl`          | Base URL for your project. For projects hosted on GitHub pages, it follows the format "/_projectName_/". For https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus, `baseUrl` is `/docusaurus/`. |


```js
const siteConfig = {
  ...
  url: 'https://__userName__.github.io', // Your website URL
  baseUrl: '/testProject/',
  projectName: 'testProject',
  organizationName: 'userName'
  ...
}
```

In case you want to deploy as a user or organization site, specify the project name as `<username>.github.io` or `<orgname>.github.io`. E.g. If your GitHub username is "user42" then _user42.github.io_, or in the case of an organization name of "org123", it will be _org123.github.io_.

__Note:__ Not setting the `url` and `baseUrl` of your project might result in incorrect file paths generated which can cause broken links to assets paths like stylesheets and images.

> While we recommend setting the `projectName` and `organizationName` in `siteConfig.js`, you can also use environment variables `ORGANIZATION_NAME` and `PROJECT_NAME`.

3. Now you have to specify the git user as an environment variable, and run the script [`publish-gh-pages`](./api-commands.md#docusaurus-publish)

| Name       | Description                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `GIT_USER` | The username for a GitHub account that has commit access to this repo. For your own repositories, this will usually be your own GitHub username. The specified `GIT_USER` must have push access to the repository specified in the combination of `organizationName` and `projectName`. |

To run the script directly from the command-line, you can use the following, filling in the parameter values as appropriate.

```bash
GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> \
  CURRENT_BRANCH=master \
  USE_SSH=true \
  yarn run publish-gh-pages # or `npm run publish-gh-pages`
```

There are also two optional parameters that are set as environment variables:

| Name             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `USE_SSH`        | If this is set to `true`, then SSH is used instead of HTTPS for the connection to the GitHub repo. HTTPS is the default if this variable is not set.                                                                                                              |
| `CURRENT_BRANCH` | The branch that contains the latest docs changes that will be deployed. Usually, the branch will be `master`, but it could be any branch (default or otherwise) except for `gh-pages`. If nothing is set for this variable, then the current branch will be used. |

If you run into issues related to SSH keys, visit [GitHub's authentication documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/).

You should now be able to load your website by visiting its GitHub Pages URL, which could be something along the lines of https://_username_.github.io/_projectName_, or a custom domain if you have set that up. For example, Docusaurus' own GitHub Pages URL is https://facebook.github.io/Docusaurus because it is served from the `gh-pages` branch of the https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus GitHub repository. However, it can also be accessed via https://docusaurus.io/, via a generated `CNAME` file which can be configured via the `cname` [siteConfig option](api-site-config.md#cname-string).

We highly encourage reading through the [GitHub Pages documentation](https://pages.github.com) to learn more about how this hosting solution works.

You can run the command above any time you update the docs and wish to deploy the changes to your site. Running the script manually may be fine for sites where the documentation rarely changes and it is not too much of an inconvenience to remember to manually deploy changes.

However, you can automate the publishing process with continuous integration (CI).

## Automating Deployments Using Continuous Integration

Continuous integration (CI) services are typically used to perform routine tasks whenever new commits are checked in to source control. These tasks can be any combination of running unit tests and integration tests, automating builds, publishing packages to NPM, and yes, deploying changes to your website. All you need to do to automate deployment of your website is to invoke the `publish-gh-pages` script whenever your docs get updated. In the following section, we'll be covering how to do just that using [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/), a popular continuous integration service provider.

### Using CircleCI 2.0

If you haven't done so already, you can [setup CircleCI](https://circleci.com/signup/) for your open source project. Afterwards, in order to enable automatic deployment of your site and documentation via CircleCI, just configure Circle to run the `publish-gh-pages` script as part of the deployment step. You can follow the steps below to get that setup.

1.  Ensure the GitHub account that will be set as the `GIT_USER` has `write` access to the repository that contains the documentation, by checking `Settings | Collaborators & teams` in the repository.
1.  Log into GitHub as the `GIT_USER`.
1.  Go to https://github.com/settings/tokens for the `GIT_USER` and generate a new [personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/), granting it full control of private repositories through the `repository` access scope. Store this token in a safe place, making sure to not share it with anyone. This token can be used to authenticate GitHub actions on your behalf in place of your GitHub password.
1.  Open your CircleCI dashboard, and navigate to the Settings page for your repository, then select "Environment variables". The URL looks like https://circleci.com/gh/ORG/REPO/edit#env-vars, where "ORG/REPO" should be replaced with your own GitHub organization/repository.
1.  Create a new environment variable named `GITHUB_TOKEN`, using your newly generated access token as the value.
1.  Create a `.circleci` directory and create a `config.yml` under that directory.
1.  Copy the text below into `.circleci/config.yml`.

```yaml
# If you only want circle to run on direct commits to master, you can uncomment this out
# and uncomment the filters: *filter-only-master down below too
#
# aliases:
#  - &filter-only-master
#    branches:
#      only:
#        - master

version: 2
jobs:
  deploy-website:
    docker:
      # specify the version you desire here
      - image: circleci/node:8.11.1

    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Deploying to GitHub Pages
          command: |
            git config --global user.email "<GITHUB_USERNAME>@users.noreply.github.com"
            git config --global user.name "<YOUR_NAME>"
            echo "machine github.com login <GITHUB_USERNAME> password $GITHUB_TOKEN" > ~/.netrc
            cd website && yarn install && GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> yarn run publish-gh-pages

workflows:
  version: 2
  build_and_deploy:
    jobs:
      - deploy-website:
#         filters: *filter-only-master
```

Make sure to replace all `<....>` in the `command:` sequence with appropriate values. For `<GIT_USER>`, it should be a GitHub account that has access to push documentation to your GitHub repository. Many times `<GIT_USER>` and `<GITHUB_USERNAME>` will be the same.

**DO NOT** place the actual value of `$GITHUB_TOKEN` in `circle.yml`. We already configured that as an environment variable back in Step 5.

> If you want to use SSH for your GitHub repository connection, you can set `USE_SSH=true`. So the above command would look something like: `cd website && npm install && GIT_USER=<GIT_USER> USE_SSH=true npm run publish-gh-pages`.

> Unlike when you run the `publish-gh-pages` script manually when the script runs within the Circle environment, the value of `CURRENT_BRANCH` is already defined as an [environment variable within CircleCI](https://circleci.com/docs/1.0/environment-variables/) and will be picked up by the script automatically.

Now, whenever a new commit lands in `master`, CircleCI will run your suite of tests and, if everything passes, your website will be deployed via the `publish-gh-pages` script.

> If you would rather use a deploy key instead of a personal access token, you can by starting with the CircleCI [instructions](https://circleci.com/docs/1.0/adding-read-write-deployment-key/) for adding a read/write deploy key.

### Tips & Tricks

When initially deploying to a `gh-pages` branch using CircleCI, you may notice that some jobs triggered by commits to the `gh-pages` branch fail to run successfully due to a lack of tests (This can also result in chat/slack build failure notifications).

You can work around this easily by:
- Setting the environment variable `CUSTOM_COMMIT_MESSAGE` flag to the `publish-gh-pages` command with the contents of `[skip ci]`.
e.g.
```bash
CUSTOM_COMMIT_MESSAGE="[skip ci]" \
  yarn run publish-gh-pages # or `npm run publish-gh-pages`
```

- Alternatively, you can work around this by creating a basic CircleCI config with the following contents:
```yaml
# CircleCI 2.0 Config File
# This config file will prevent tests from being run on the gh-pages branch.
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    machine: true
    branches:
      ignore: gh-pages
    steps:
      - run: echo "Skipping tests on gh-pages branch"
```

Save this file as `config.yml` and place it in a `.circleci` directory inside your `website/static` directory.

### Using Travis CI

1.  Go to https://github.com/settings/tokens and generate a new [personal access token](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/)
1.  Using your GitHub account, [add the Travis CI app](https://github.com/marketplace/travis-ci) to the repository you want to activate.
1.  Open your Travis CI dashboard. The URL looks like https://travis-ci.com/USERNAME/REPO, and navigate to the `More options` > `Setting` > `Environment Variables` section of your repository.
1.  Create a new environment variable named `GH_TOKEN` with your newly generated token as its value, then `GH_EMAIL` (your email address) and `GH_NAME` (your GitHub username).
1.  Create a `.travis.yml` on the root of your repository with below text.

```yaml
# .travis.yml
language: node_js
node_js:
  - '8'
branches:
  only:
    - master
cache:
  yarn: true
script:
  - git config --global user.name "${GH_NAME}"
  - git config --global user.email "${GH_EMAIL}"
  - echo "machine github.com login ${GH_NAME} password ${GH_TOKEN}" > ~/.netrc
  - cd website && yarn install && GIT_USER="${GH_NAME}" yarn run publish-gh-pages
```

Now, whenever a new commit lands in `master`, Travis CI will run your suite of tests and, if everything passes, your website will be deployed via the `publish-gh-pages` script.

### Hosting on Netlify

Steps to configure your Docusaurus-powered site on Netlify.

1.  Select **New site from Git**
1.  Connect to your preferred Git provider.
1.  Select the branch to deploy. Default is `master`
1.  Configure your build steps:

    * For your build command enter: `cd website; npm install; npm run build;`
    * For publish directory: `website/build/<projectName>` (use the `projectName` from your `siteConfig`)

1.  Click **Deploy site**

You can also configure Netlify to rebuild on every commit to your repository, or only `master` branch commits.

### Hosting on Render

Render offers free [static site](https://render.com/docs/static-sites) hosting with fully managed SSL, custom domains, a global CDN and continuous auto deploys from your Git repo. Deploy your app in just a few minutes by following these steps.

1. Create a new **Web Service** on Render, and give Render's GitHub app permission to access your Docusaurus repo.

2. Select the branch to deploy. The default is `master`.

2. Enter the following values during creation.

    |  Field  |  Value |
    | ------- | ----- |
    | **Environment** | `Static Site` |
    | **Build Command** | `cd website; yarn install; yarn build` |
    | **Publish Directory** | `website/build/<projectName>` |

    `projectName` is the value you defined in your `siteConfig.js`.

    ```javascript{7}
    const siteConfig = {
      // ...
      projectName: 'your-project-name',
      // ...
    ```

That's it! Your app will be live on your Render URL as soon as the build finishes.

### Publishing to GitHub Enterprise

GitHub enterprise installations should work in the same manner as github.com; you only need to identify the organization's GitHub Enterprise host.

| Name          | Description                                    |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `GITHUB_HOST` | The hostname for the GitHub enterprise server. |

Alter your `siteConfig.js` to add a property `'githubHost'` which represents the GitHub Enterprise hostname. Alternatively, set an environment variable `GITHUB_HOST` when executing the publish command.
