website/docs/cli.md, before:

---
id: cli
title: CLI
---

Docusaurus provides a set of scripts to help you generate, serve, and deploy your website.

Once your website is bootstrapped, the website source will contain the Docusaurus scripts that you can invoke with your package manager:

```json title="package.json"
{
  // ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "docusaurus start",
    "build": "docusaurus build",
    "swizzle": "docusaurus swizzle",
    "deploy": "docusaurus deploy",
    "clear": "docusaurus clear"
  }
}
```

## Docusaurus CLI commands

Below is a list of Docusaurus CLI commands and their usages:

<!-- TODO: init docs after the init command is implemented

### `docusaurus init`

The `docusaurus init` command is intended to be used with `docusaurus` installed globally:

```shell
$ yarn global add docusaurus
# or
$ npm install --global docusaurus
```
-->

### `docusaurus start`

Builds and serves a preview of your site locally with [Webpack Dev Server](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server).

#### Options

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--port` | `3000` | Specifies the port of the dev server. |
| `--host` | `localhost` | Specify a host to use. For example, if you want your server to be accessible externally, you can use `--host 0.0.0.0`. |
| `--hot-only` | `false` | Enables Hot Module Replacement without page refresh as fallback in case of build failures. More information [here](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserverhotonly). |
| `--no-open` | `false` | Do not open automatically the page in the browser. |
| `--poll` | `false` | Use polling of files rather than watching for live reload as a fallback in environments where watching doesn't work. More information [here](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/watch/#watchoptionspoll). |

:::important

Please note that some functionality (for example, anchor links) will not work in development. The functionality will work as expected in production.

:::

### `docusaurus build`

Compiles your site for production.

#### Options

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--bundle-analyzer` | `false` | Analyze your bundle with the [webpack bundle analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer). |
| `--out-dir` | `build` | The full path for the new output directory, relative to the current workspace. |
| `--no-minify` | `false` | Build website without minimizing JS/CSS bundles. |

### `docusaurus swizzle`

:::caution

We highly discourage swizzling of components until we've reached a Beta stage. The components APIs have been changing rapidly and are likely to keep changing until we reach Beta. Stick with the default appearance for now if possible to save yourself some potential pain in future.

:::

Change any Docusaurus theme components to your liking with `docusaurus swizzle`.

```shell
docusaurus swizzle [themeName] [componentName] [siteDir]

# Example (leaving out the siteDir to indicate this directory)
docusaurus swizzle @docusaurus/theme-classic DocSidebar
```

Running the command will copy the relevant theme files to your site folder. You may then make any changes to it and Docusaurus will use it instead of the one provided from the theme.

`docusaurus swizzle` without `themeName` lists all the themes available for swizzling similarly `docusaurus swizzle <themeName>` without `componentName` lists all the components available for swizzling.

#### Options

| Name               | Description                            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------- |
| `themeName`        | The name of the theme you are using.   |
| `swizzleComponent` | The name of the component to swizzle.  |
| `--danger`         | Allow swizzling of unstable components |
| `--typescript`     | Swizzle typescript components          |

To unswizzle a component, simply delete the files of the swizzled component.

<!--
TODO a separate section for swizzle tutorial.
To learn more about swizzling, check [here](#).
-->

### `docusaurus deploy`

Deploys your site with [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). Check out the docs on [deployment](deployment.md/#deploying-to-github-pages) for more details.

#### Options

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--out-dir` | `build` | The full path for the new output directory, relative to the current workspace. |
| `--skip-build` | `false` | Deploy website without building it. This may be useful when using custom deploy script. |

### `docusaurus serve`

Serve your built website locally.

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--port` | `3000` | Use specified port |
| `--dir` | `build` | The full path for the output directory, relative to the current workspace |
| `--build` | `false` | Build website before serving |
| `--host` | `localhost` | Specify a host to use. For example, if you want your server to be accessible externally, you can use `--host 0.0.0.0`. |

### `docusaurus clear`

Clear a Docusaurus site's generated assets, caches, build artifacts...

We recommend running this command before reporting bugs, after upgrading versions, or anytime you have issues with your Docusaurus site.

Commit message:

docs: add steps for using https with docusaurus

website/docs/cli.md, after:

---
id: cli
title: CLI
---

Docusaurus provides a set of scripts to help you generate, serve, and deploy your website.

Once your website is bootstrapped, the website source will contain the Docusaurus scripts that you can invoke with your package manager:

```json title="package.json"
{
  // ...
  "scripts": {
    "start": "docusaurus start",
    "build": "docusaurus build",
    "swizzle": "docusaurus swizzle",
    "deploy": "docusaurus deploy",
    "clear": "docusaurus clear"
  }
}
```

## Docusaurus CLI commands

Below is a list of Docusaurus CLI commands and their usages:

<!-- TODO: init docs after the init command is implemented

### `docusaurus init`

The `docusaurus init` command is intended to be used with `docusaurus` installed globally:

```shell
$ yarn global add docusaurus
# or
$ npm install --global docusaurus
```
-->

### `docusaurus start`

Builds and serves a preview of your site locally with [Webpack Dev Server](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server).

#### Options

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--port` | `3000` | Specifies the port of the dev server. |
| `--host` | `localhost` | Specify a host to use. For example, if you want your server to be accessible externally, you can use `--host 0.0.0.0`. |
| `--hot-only` | `false` | Enables Hot Module Replacement without page refresh as fallback in case of build failures. More information [here](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/#devserverhotonly). |
| `--no-open` | `false` | Do not open automatically the page in the browser. |
| `--poll` | `false` | Use polling of files rather than watching for live reload as a fallback in environments where watching doesn't work. More information [here](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/watch/#watchoptionspoll). |

:::important

Please note that some functionality (for example, anchor links) will not work in development. The functionality will work as expected in production.

:::

#### `Running in https`

1.Get the required certificate, key files for https. For demo purposes let's use [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert).

2.In your root of docusaurus project place the above required files.

For demo let's run

```shell
  mkcert localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1
```

this will emit files required for the https mode.

3.Finally start the server(`docusaurus start`) with the file path's as env variables

```shell
  HTTPS=true SSL_CRT_FILE=<path-to-certificate-file> SSL_KEY_FILE=<path-to-key-file> yarn start
```

For demo

```shell
  HTTPS=true SSL_CRT_FILE=localhost+2.pem SSL_KEY_FILE=localhost+2-key.pem yarn start
```

will start the docusaurus in https mode. Please note that `localhost+2.pem`, `localhost+2-key.pem` files are generated by mkcert for the demo.

4.Now you must be running the docusaurus in https mode.

### `docusaurus build`

Compiles your site for production.

#### Options

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--bundle-analyzer` | `false` | Analyze your bundle with the [webpack bundle analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer). |
| `--out-dir` | `build` | The full path for the new output directory, relative to the current workspace. |
| `--no-minify` | `false` | Build website without minimizing JS/CSS bundles. |

### `docusaurus swizzle`

:::caution

We highly discourage swizzling of components until we've reached a Beta stage. The components APIs have been changing rapidly and are likely to keep changing until we reach Beta. Stick with the default appearance for now if possible to save yourself some potential pain in future.

:::

Change any Docusaurus theme components to your liking with `docusaurus swizzle`.

```shell
docusaurus swizzle [themeName] [componentName] [siteDir]

# Example (leaving out the siteDir to indicate this directory)
docusaurus swizzle @docusaurus/theme-classic DocSidebar
```

Running the command will copy the relevant theme files to your site folder. You may then make any changes to it and Docusaurus will use it instead of the one provided from the theme.

`docusaurus swizzle` without `themeName` lists all the themes available for swizzling similarly `docusaurus swizzle <themeName>` without `componentName` lists all the components available for swizzling.

#### Options

| Name               | Description                            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------- |
| `themeName`        | The name of the theme you are using.   |
| `swizzleComponent` | The name of the component to swizzle.  |
| `--danger`         | Allow swizzling of unstable components |
| `--typescript`     | Swizzle typescript components          |

To unswizzle a component, simply delete the files of the swizzled component.

<!--
TODO a separate section for swizzle tutorial.
To learn more about swizzling, check [here](#).
-->

### `docusaurus deploy`

Deploys your site with [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). Check out the docs on [deployment](deployment.md/#deploying-to-github-pages) for more details.

#### Options

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--out-dir` | `build` | The full path for the new output directory, relative to the current workspace. |
| `--skip-build` | `false` | Deploy website without building it. This may be useful when using custom deploy script. |

### `docusaurus serve`

Serve your built website locally.

| Name | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--port` | `3000` | Use specified port |
| `--dir` | `build` | The full path for the output directory, relative to the current workspace |
| `--build` | `false` | Build website before serving |
| `--host` | `localhost` | Specify a host to use. For example, if you want your server to be accessible externally, you can use `--host 0.0.0.0`. |

### `docusaurus clear`

Clear a Docusaurus site's generated assets, caches, build artifacts...

We recommend running this command before reporting bugs, after upgrading versions, or anytime you have issues with your Docusaurus site.
