website/docs/docusaurus.config.js.md, before:

---
id: docusaurus.config.js
title: docusaurus.config.js
description: API reference for Docusaurus configuration file.
---

## Overview

`docusaurus.config.js` contains configurations for your site and is placed in the root directory of your site.

## Required fields

### `title`

- Type: `string`

Title for your website.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  title: 'Docusaurus',
};
```

### `favicon`

- Type: `string`

URL for site favicon. Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  favicon: 'https://v2.docusaurus.io/favicon.ico',
};
```

You can also use the favicon URL relative to the `static` directory of your site. For example, your site has the following directory structure:

```bash
.
├── README.md
├ # ... other files in root directory
└─ static
    └── img
        └── favicon.ico
```

So you can refer it like below:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  favicon: 'img/favicon.ico',
};
```

### `url`

- Type: `string`

URL for your website. This can also be considered the top-level hostname. For example, `https://facebook.github.io` is the URL of https://facebook.github.io/metro/, and `https://docusaurus.io` is the URL for https://docusaurus.io. This field is related to the [baseUrl](#baseurl) field.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  url: 'https://docusaurus.io',
};
```

### `baseUrl`

- Type: `string`

Base URL for your site. This can also be considered the path after the host. For example, `/metro/` is the baseUrl of https://facebook.github.io/metro/. For URLs that have no path, the baseUrl should be set to `/`. This field is related to the [url](#url) field.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  baseUrl: '/',
};
```

## Optional fields

### `tagline`

- Type: `string`

The tagline for your website.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  tagline:
    'Docusaurus makes it easy to maintain Open Source documentation websites.',
};
```

### `organizationName`

- Type: `string`

The GitHub user or organization that owns the repository. Used by the deployment command.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  // Docusaurus' organization is facebook
  organizationName: 'facebook',
};
```

### `projectName`

- Type: `string`

The name of the GitHub repository. Used by the deployment command.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  projectName: 'docusaurus',
};
```

### `githubHost`

- Type: `string`

The hostname of your server. Useful if you are using GitHub Enterprise.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  githubHost: 'github.com',
};
```

### `themeConfig`

- Type: `Object`

<!-- TODO: explain that theme configurations will be consumed by the theme, and link to theme doc -->

An object containing data needed by the theme you use.<!--, see [theme configurations](#).-->

For Docusaurus' default theme _classic_, we use `themeConfig` to customize your navbar and footer links:

Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  themeConfig: {
    navbar: {
      title: 'Site Title',
      logo: {
        alt: 'Site Logo',
        src: 'img/logo.svg',
      },
      links: [
        {
          to: 'docs/docusaurus.config.js',
          activeBasePath: 'docs',
          label: 'docusaurus.config.js',
          position: 'left',
        },
        // ... other links
      ],
    },
    footer: {
      style: 'dark',
      links: [
        {
          title: 'Docs',
          items: [
            {
              label: 'Docs',
              to: 'docs/doc1',
            },
          ],
        },
        // ... other links
      ],
      logo: {
        alt: 'Facebook Open Source Logo',
        src: 'https://docusaurus.io/img/oss_logo.png',
      },
      copyright: `Copyright © ${new Date().getFullYear()} Facebook, Inc.`, // You can also put own HTML here
    },
  },
};
```

### `plugins`

<!-- TODO: configuration for plugins -->

- Type: `any[]`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  plugins: [],
};
```

### `themes`

<!-- TODO: configuration for plugins -->

- Type: `any[]`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  themes: [],
};
```

### `presets`

<!-- TODO: configuration for presets -->

- Type: `any[]`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  presets: [],
};
```

### `customFields`

Docusaurus guards `docusaurus.config.js` from unknown fields. To add a custom field, define it on `customFields`.

- Type: `Object`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  customFields: {
    admin: 'endi',
    superman: 'lol',
  },
};
```

Attempting to add unknown field in the config will lead to error in build time:

```bash
Error: The field(s) 'foo', 'bar' are not recognized in docusaurus.config.js
```

### `scripts`

An array of scripts to load. The values can be either strings or plain objects of attribute-value maps. The `<script>` tags will be inserted in the HTML `<head>`.

Note that `<script>` added here are render-blocking so you might want to add `async: true`/`defer: true` to the objects.

- Type: `(string | Object)[]`

Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  scripts: [
    // String format.
    'https://docusaurus.io/script.js',
    // Object format.
    {
      src:
        'https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/clipboard.js/2.0.0/clipboard.min.js',
      async: true,
    },
  ],
};
```

### `stylesheets`

An array of CSS sources to load. The values can be either strings or plain objects of attribute-value maps. The `<link>` tags will be inserted in the HTML `<head>`.

- Type: `(string | Object)[]`

Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  stylesheets: [
    // String format.
    'https://docusaurus.io/style.css',
    // Object format.
    {
      href: 'http://mydomain.com/style.css',
      type: 'text/css',
    },
  ],
};
```

Commit message:

finalize broken links detection feature

website/docs/docusaurus.config.js.md, after:

---
id: docusaurus.config.js
title: docusaurus.config.js
description: API reference for Docusaurus configuration file.
---

## Overview

`docusaurus.config.js` contains configurations for your site and is placed in the root directory of your site.

## Required fields

### `title`

- Type: `string`

Title for your website.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  title: 'Docusaurus',
};
```

### `favicon`

- Type: `string`

URL for site favicon. Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  favicon: 'https://v2.docusaurus.io/favicon.ico',
};
```

You can also use the favicon URL relative to the `static` directory of your site. For example, your site has the following directory structure:

```bash
.
├── README.md
├ # ... other files in root directory
└─ static
    └── img
        └── favicon.ico
```

So you can refer it like below:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  favicon: 'img/favicon.ico',
};
```

### `url`

- Type: `string`

URL for your website. This can also be considered the top-level hostname. For example, `https://facebook.github.io` is the URL of https://facebook.github.io/metro/, and `https://docusaurus.io` is the URL for https://docusaurus.io. This field is related to the [baseUrl](#baseurl) field.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  url: 'https://docusaurus.io',
};
```

### `baseUrl`

- Type: `string`

Base URL for your site. This can also be considered the path after the host. For example, `/metro/` is the baseUrl of https://facebook.github.io/metro/. For URLs that have no path, the baseUrl should be set to `/`. This field is related to the [url](#url) field.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  baseUrl: '/',
};
```

## Optional fields

### `onBrokenLinks`

- Type: `'ignore' | 'log' | 'error' | 'throw'`

The behavior of Docusaurus when it detects a broken link.

By default, it throws, to ensure you never ship any broken link, but you can lower this security if needed.

### `tagline`

- Type: `string`

The tagline for your website.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  tagline:
    'Docusaurus makes it easy to maintain Open Source documentation websites.',
};
```

### `organizationName`

- Type: `string`

The GitHub user or organization that owns the repository. Used by the deployment command.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  // Docusaurus' organization is facebook
  organizationName: 'facebook',
};
```

### `projectName`

- Type: `string`

The name of the GitHub repository. Used by the deployment command.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  projectName: 'docusaurus',
};
```

### `githubHost`

- Type: `string`

The hostname of your server. Useful if you are using GitHub Enterprise.

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  githubHost: 'github.com',
};
```

### `themeConfig`

- Type: `Object`

<!-- TODO: explain that theme configurations will be consumed by the theme, and link to theme doc -->

An object containing data needed by the theme you use.<!--, see [theme configurations](#).-->

For Docusaurus' default theme _classic_, we use `themeConfig` to customize your navbar and footer links:

Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  themeConfig: {
    navbar: {
      title: 'Site Title',
      logo: {
        alt: 'Site Logo',
        src: 'img/logo.svg',
      },
      links: [
        {
          to: 'docs/docusaurus.config.js',
          activeBasePath: 'docs',
          label: 'docusaurus.config.js',
          position: 'left',
        },
        // ... other links
      ],
    },
    footer: {
      style: 'dark',
      links: [
        {
          title: 'Docs',
          items: [
            {
              label: 'Docs',
              to: 'docs/doc1',
            },
          ],
        },
        // ... other links
      ],
      logo: {
        alt: 'Facebook Open Source Logo',
        src: 'https://docusaurus.io/img/oss_logo.png',
      },
      copyright: `Copyright © ${new Date().getFullYear()} Facebook, Inc.`, // You can also put own HTML here
    },
  },
};
```

### `plugins`

<!-- TODO: configuration for plugins -->

- Type: `any[]`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  plugins: [],
};
```

### `themes`

<!-- TODO: configuration for plugins -->

- Type: `any[]`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  themes: [],
};
```

### `presets`

<!-- TODO: configuration for presets -->

- Type: `any[]`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  presets: [],
};
```

### `customFields`

Docusaurus guards `docusaurus.config.js` from unknown fields. To add a custom field, define it on `customFields`.

- Type: `Object`

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  customFields: {
    admin: 'endi',
    superman: 'lol',
  },
};
```

Attempting to add unknown field in the config will lead to error in build time:

```bash
Error: The field(s) 'foo', 'bar' are not recognized in docusaurus.config.js
```

### `scripts`

An array of scripts to load. The values can be either strings or plain objects of attribute-value maps. The `<script>` tags will be inserted in the HTML `<head>`.

Note that `<script>` added here are render-blocking so you might want to add `async: true`/`defer: true` to the objects.

- Type: `(string | Object)[]`

Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  scripts: [
    // String format.
    'https://docusaurus.io/script.js',
    // Object format.
    {
      src:
        'https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/clipboard.js/2.0.0/clipboard.min.js',
      async: true,
    },
  ],
};
```

### `stylesheets`

An array of CSS sources to load. The values can be either strings or plain objects of attribute-value maps. The `<link>` tags will be inserted in the HTML `<head>`.

- Type: `(string | Object)[]`

Example:

```js title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  stylesheets: [
    // String format.
    'https://docusaurus.io/style.css',
    // Object format.
    {
      href: 'http://mydomain.com/style.css',
      type: 'text/css',
    },
  ],
};
```
