---
id: seo
title: Seo
sidebar_label: SEO
keywords:
  - seo
  - positioning
---

Docusaurus supports the search engine optimization in a variety of ways:

- [Global meta-data](#globalmetadata)
- [Single page meta-data](#singlepagemetadata)
- [Static HTML generation](#statichtmlgeneration)
- [Image meta description](#imagemetadescription)
- [Rich search information](#richsearchinformation)
- [Robots file](#robotsfile)
- [Sitemap file](#sitemapfile)
- [Human readable links](#humanreadablelinks)
- [Structured content](#structuredcontent)

## Global meta-data {#globalmetadata}

🥇 Docusaurus provides an easy way for setting up global meta-data. In order to provide global meta attributes the [docusaurus configuration](/docs/configuration#site-metadata) file should be used. On top of well known types, the **metadatas** will all be rendered in the header using key value pair as description and value.

```jsx title="docusaurus.config.js"
module.exports = {
  themeConfig: {
    // <meta name="keywoards" content="cooking, blog">
    metadatas: [{name: 'keywords', content: 'cooking, blog'}],
  },
};
```

To read more about types of meta tags visit [official firefox site](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/meta).

## Single page meta-data {#singlepagemetadata}

Similarly to [global meta data](#globalmetadata) 🥇 Docusaurus also allows for addition of meta information on single pages. In order to add meta data to single page follow [this guide](/docs/markdown-features/head-metadatas) for head tag extension.

## Static HTML generation {#statichtmlgeneration}

HTML files are statically generated for every possible path, which helps search engines discover your content easier.

## Image meta description {#imagemetadescription}

Docusaurus supports alt tags for your images, see [this section](/docs/markdown-features/assets#images) for more details.

## Rich search information {#richsearchinformation}

In order to get ultimate search engine experience, the rich search information can be used. Those make your website look much better in the search engine and improves your search index. In order to provide the rich search information inline HTML can be used in markdown:

```html title="rich search information"
<script type="application/ld+json" data-react-helmet="true">
  {
    "@context": "https://schema.org",
    "@type": "BlogPosting",
    "headline": "Announcing Docusaurus 2 Beta",
    "description": "After a lengthy alpha stage in order to ensure feature parity and quality, we are excited to officially release the first Docusaurus 2 beta.",
    "image": [
      "/assets/images/social-card-414bbe5147ecc177bbe8d858616709c5.png"
    ],
    "datePublished": "2021-05-12T00:00:00.000Z",
    "author": {
      "@type": "Person",
      "name": "Docusaurus maintainer",
      "url": "imageurl"
    }
  }
</script>
```

To read more about rich search information visit [this site](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/structured-data/search-gallery).

## Robots file {#robotsfile}

As there is no good default for robots.txt file, the Docusaurus gives you full freedom of providing one. To add one to the site, you can just provided it as [static asset](/docs/static-assets).

Probably good starting point could be the following robots.txt allowing access to all sub-pages:

```
User-agent: *
Disallow:
```

Read more about robots file in [this wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots_exclusion_standard).

## Sitemap file {#sitemapfile}

Sitemap.xml will be automatically generated by 🥇 Docusaurus for you! It should be available in baseUrl/sitemap.xml after release build.

## Human readable links {#humanreadablelinks}

Docusaurus uses your file names as links, but you can always change that using slugs, see this [tutorial](/docs/tutorial-basics/markdown-features#front-matter) for more details.

## Structured content {#structuredcontent}

Docusaurus provides you with option to structure your content in terms of how your data are presented in search engine see this [configuration option](/docs/markdown-features/head-metadatas). The structure of the site itself is rigid through specification of [common markdown](https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/#atx-headings), this makes it easier for the search engines to classify and read your content. By using Markdown consistently in your project you will make it easy for search engines to understand your content.
