---
id: site-preparation
title: Site Preparation
---

After [installing Docusaurus](./getting-started-installation.md), you will want to install and run the example site included. This serves dual purposes.

1. Verifying that Docusaurus was installed correctly.
1. Providing you the skeleton to create your site.

## Verifying Installation

1. Generate the files for the example site by running `examples` using `yarn` or `npm`.

    ```
    npm run examples
    ```

    or

    ```
    yarn run examples
    ```

    > If any of the files created by `[yarn | npm] run examples` already exists, Docusaurus will not overwrite them.

1. Run the server.

    ```
    npm run start
    ```

    or

    ```
    yarn run start
    ```

1. Load the example site at http://localhost:3000. You should see the example site loaded in your web browser.

## Example Site Configuration

Loading the example site will create the following files/folders:

```
website/core/Footer.js
website/pages/...
website/static/img/...
website/siteConfig.js
website/blog-examples-from-docusaurus/...
docs-examples-from-docusaurus/...
```

> The `docs-examples-from-docusaurus` folder will be at the same directory level as `website`, not in it.

The provided example files contain configurations that can be used as starting points for your site:

- The `website/core/Footer.js` file is a React component that acts as the footer for the site generated by Docusaurus and should be customized by the user.
- The `website/blog-examples-from-docusaurus` folder contains examples of blog posts written in markdown.
- The `docs-examples-from-docusaurus` folder contains example documentation files written in markdown.
- The `website/pages` folder contains example top-level pages for the site.
- The `website/static` folder contains static assets used by the example site.
- The `website/siteConfig.js` file is the main configuration file used by Docusaurus.

You will need to keep the `website/siteConfig.js` and `website/core/Footer.js` files, but may edit them as you wish.

You should keep the `website/pages` and `website/static` folders, but may change the content inside them as you wish. At the bare minimum you should have an `en/index.js` or `en/index.html` file inside `website/pages` and an image to use as your header icon inside `website/static`.

The `website/blog-examples-from-docusaurus` and `docs-examples-from-docusaurus` folders contain example blog and document markdown files. If you wish to run Docusaurus with these files, you need to rename the folders to `website/blog` and `docs`, respectively.
